OpenCV

1.VideoCapture

With OpenCV, we can capture a video from the camera. It lets you create a video capture object which is helpful to capture videos through webcam and then you may perform desired operations on that video.

Use cv2.VideoCapture() to get a video capture object for the camera.
Set up an infinite while loop and use the read() method to read the frames using the above created object.

Use cv2.imshow() method to show the frames in the video.
Breaks the loop when the user clicks a specific key.


2.imwrite

The function imwrite saves the image to the specified file.

cv2. imwrite() method is used to save an image to any storage device. This will save the image according to the specified format in current working directory. 

Syntax: cv2.imwrite(filename, image)

Parameters:

filename: A string representing the file name. The filename must include image format like .jpg, .png, etc.
image: It is the image that is to be saved.



3.cvtColor

v2.cvtColor() method is used to convert an image from one color space to another. There are more than 150 color-space conversion methods available in OpenCV.

Syntax: cv2.cvtColor(src, code[, dst[, dstCn]])

Parameters:

src: It is the image whose color space is to be changed.
code: It is the color space conversion code.
dst: It is the output image of the same size and depth as src image. It is an optional parameter.
dstCn: It is the number of channels in the destination image. If the parameter is 0 then the number of the channels is derived automatically from src and code. It is an optional parameter.

Return Value: It returns an image.



4.putText

cv2.putText() method is used to draw a text string on any image.

Syntax: cv2.putText(image, text, org, font, fontScale, color[, thickness[, lineType[, bottomLeftOrigin]]])

Parameters:
image: It is the image on which text is to be drawn.
text: Text string to be drawn.
org: It is the coordinates of the bottom-left corner of the text string in the image. The coordinates are represented as tuples of two values i.e. (X coordinate value, Y coordinate value).
font: It denotes the font type. Some of font types are FONT_HERSHEY_SIMPLEX, FONT_HERSHEY_PLAIN, , etc.
fontScale: Font scale factor that is multiplied by the font-specific base size.
color: It is the color of text string to be drawn. For BGR, we pass a tuple. eg: (255, 0, 0) for blue color.
thickness: It is the thickness of the line in px.
lineType: This is an optional parameter.It gives the type of the line to be used.
bottomLeftOrigin: This is an optional parameter. When it is true, the image data origin is at the bottom-left corner. Otherwise, it is at the top-left corner.

Return Value: It returns an image.



5.rectangle

cv2.rectangle() method is used to draw a rectangle on any image.

Syntax: cv2.rectangle(image, start_point, end_point, color, thickness)

Parameters:
image: It is the image on which rectangle is to be drawn.
start_point: It is the starting coordinates of rectangle. The coordinates are represented as tuples of two values i.e. (X coordinate value, Y coordinate value).
end_point: It is the ending coordinates of rectangle. The coordinates are represented as tuples of two values i.e. (X coordinate value, Y coordinate value).
color: It is the color of border line of rectangle to be drawn. For BGR, we pass a tuple. eg: (255, 0, 0) for blue color.
thickness: It is the thickness of the rectangle border line in px. Thickness of -1 px will fill the rectangle shape by the specified color.

Return Value: It returns an image.



6.imshow

cv2.imshow() method is used to display an image in a window. The window automatically fits to the image size.

Syntax: cv2.imshow(window_name, image)

Parameters: 
window_name: A string representing the name of the window in which image to be displayed. 
image: It is the image that is to be displayed.

Return Value: It doesn’t returns anything. 



7.waitkey

waitkey() function allows users to display a window for given milliseconds or until any key is pressed. It takes time in milliseconds as a parameter and waits for the given time to destroy the window, if 0 is passed in the argument it waits till any key is pressed. 



Pandas

1.read_csv

read_csv is an important pandas function to read csv files and do operations on it. 

2.tolist

Pandas tolist() is used to convert a series to list. Initially the series is of type pandas.core.series.Series and applying tolist() method, it is converted to list data type.

Syntax: Series.tolist()

Return type: Converted series into List

3.DataFrame
Two-dimensional, size-mutable, potentially heterogeneous tabular data.

Data structure also contains labeled axes (rows and columns). Arithmetic operations align on both row and column labels. Can be thought of as a dict-like container for Series objects. The primary pandas data structure.

4.to_csv

The to_csv() function is used to write object to a comma-separated values (csv) file.



sys

This module provides access to some objects used or maintained by the interpreter and to functions that interact strongly with the interpreter.



datetime

datetime(year, month, day[, hour[, minute[, second[, microsecond[,tzinfo]]]]])
The year, month and day arguments are required. tzinfo may be None, or an instance of a tzinfo subclass. The remaining arguments may be ints.

1.now

Construct a datetime from time.time() and optional time zone info.


shape

Tuple of array dimensions.
The shape property is usually used to get the current shape of an array, but may also be used to reshape the array in-place by assigning a tuple of array dimensions to it.
